.TH COOLERDASH 1 "November 2025" "CoolerDash 1.96" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
coolerdash \- LCD dashboard renderer for CoolerControl-compatible AIO coolers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B coolerdash
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-\-dual\fR]
[\fB\-\-circle\fR]
[\fB\-\-force\-display\-circular\fR]
.br
.B coolerdash
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B coolerdash
generates and uploads real-time sensor images to AIO liquid cooler LCD displays
using data from the CoolerControl daemon. It extends CoolerControl's LCD
functionality with multiple display modes, temperature visualization, and
extensive customization options.
.PP
The program supports two display modes:
.B dual mode
(simultaneous CPU+GPU display) and
.B circle mode
(alternating single-sensor display). Display shape detection automatically
adjusts layouts for circular and rectangular screens.
.PP
.B coolerdash
runs as a systemd service by default but can be executed manually for testing
and debugging purposes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose logging. Shows detailed information about API calls, device
detection, rendering operations, and display updates. Useful for debugging
and troubleshooting.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-dual
Force dual display mode (CPU and GPU simultaneously). Overrides config.json setting.
.TP
.B \-\-circle
Force circle display mode (alternating CPU/GPU every 2.5 seconds). Overrides
config.json setting.
.TP
.B \-\-force\-display\-circular
Force circular display layout (inscribe factor = 0.7071). Overrides automatic
display shape detection. Deprecated in favor of the \fBshape\fR configuration
parameter.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B coolerdash
is configured through
.IR /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/config.json .
After modifying the configuration file, restart the CoolerControl service:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B sudo systemctl restart coolercontrold.service
.fi
.RE
.SS Important Configuration Sections
.TP
.B [daemon]
CoolerControl daemon connection settings (address, password).
.TP
.B [display]
Display settings including width, height, refresh rate, brightness, orientation,
display mode (\fBdual\fR or \fBcircle\fR), and shape override (\fBauto\fR,
\fBrectangular\fR, or \fBcircular\fR).
.TP
.B [layout]
Visual layout configuration for box dimensions, bar sizes, gaps, and borders.
.TP
.B [temperature]
Temperature thresholds and color zones for visual indication.
.TP
.B [font]
Font family, sizes, and colors for temperature values and labels.
.PP
For detailed configuration options, see
.I /usr/share/doc/coolerdash/config-guide.md
or visit the project documentation online.
.SH DISPLAY MODES
.SS Dual Mode (default)
Displays CPU and GPU temperatures simultaneously in a side-by-side layout.
Recommended for all display sizes and shapes. Provides constant visibility
of both sensors.
.SS Circle Mode
Alternates between CPU and GPU display every 2.5 seconds. Optimized for
circular high-resolution displays (>240x240px) where larger text and graphics
provide better visibility.
.PP
To enable circle mode, edit
.I /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/config.json
and set:
.PP
.RS
.nf
"display": {
  "mode": "circle"
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
Or use the
.B \-\-circle
command-line option to temporarily override the configuration.
.SH DISPLAY SHAPE DETECTION
.B coolerdash
automatically detects whether your LCD is circular or rectangular and adjusts
the layout accordingly using an inscribe factor.
.SS Automatic Detection Rules
.TP
.B NZXT Kraken devices
Resolution-based detection:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
≤240×240 pixels → Rectangular (inscribe factor = 1.0)
.IP \(bu 3
>240×240 pixels → Circular (inscribe factor = 0.7071)
.RE
.TP
.B Other devices
Checked against internal device database.
.TP
.B Default
Rectangular (safer fallback for unknown devices).
.SS Manual Override
You can manually override automatic detection in
.IR /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/config.ini :
.PP
.RS
.nf
[display]
shape = auto          # Auto-detection (default)
# shape = rectangular # Force rectangular (inscribe factor = 1.0)
# shape = circular    # Force circular (inscribe factor = 0.7071)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Priority: \fBshape\fR config > \fB\-\-force-display-circular\fR flag > auto-detection
.SH PLUGIN MODE
.B coolerdash
runs as a CoolerControl plugin, automatically managed by
.BR coolercontrold.service .
No separate service configuration is required.
.PP
Arch Linux (recommended):
.SH INSTALLATION
.SS Arch Linux (Recommended)
Using an AUR helper (e.g., yay, paru):
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B yay -S coolerdash-git
.B sudo systemctl restart coolercontrold.service
.fi
.RE
.SS All Linux Distributions
Manual installation from source:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B git clone https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash.git
.B cd coolerdash
.B make install
.B sudo systemctl restart coolercontrold.service
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B make install
command automatically detects your distribution and installs required
dependencies.
.SH SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
.TP
.B Operating System
Linux (any distribution)
.TP
.B CoolerControl
Version ≥2.2.2 (must be installed and running). See
.UR https://gitlab.com/coolercontrol/coolercontrol
.UE
for installation instructions.
.TP
.B CPU Architecture
x86-64-v3 compatible (Intel Haswell+ / AMD Excavator+ or newer)
.TP
.B LCD Display
AIO liquid cooler with LCD display (NZXT Kraken, Corsair iCUE, etc.).
All devices supported by CoolerControl/liquidctl should work.
.TP
.B Build Dependencies
gcc, make, cairo, jansson, curl, inih (automatically installed by
.BR "make install" )
.SH COOLERCONTROL SETUP
Before using
.BR coolerdash ,
configure CoolerControl:
.IP 1. 4
Open CoolerControl GUI
.IP 2. 4
Navigate to
.B Settings
→
.B "Device and Sensor"
.IP 3. 4
Select one sensor for
.B CPU
(e.g., "CPU Package")
.IP 4. 4
Select one sensor for
.B GPU
(e.g., "GPU Temperature")
.IP 5. 4
Set your LCD display output type to
.B "Image/gif"
.IP 6. 4
Save settings and restart coolerdash service
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Run manually with verbose logging
The plugin is managed by CoolerControl:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/coolerdash --verbose
.fi
.RE
.SS Force dual mode temporarily
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/coolerdash --dual --verbose
.fi
.RE
.SS Force circle mode temporarily
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/coolerdash --circle --verbose
.fi
.RE
.SS Check CoolerControl device information
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B curl http://localhost:11987/devices | jq
.fi
.RE
.SS View recent service logs
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B journalctl -u coolercontrold.service -n 50
.fi
.RE
.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
.SS Service won't start
Check CoolerControl daemon status:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B systemctl status coolercontrold
.fi
.RE
.PP
Ensure coolercontrold is running before starting coolerdash.
.SS No devices found
Verify CoolerControl can see your device:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B curl http://localhost:11987/devices
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check that your LCD is set to "Image/gif" mode in CoolerControl GUI.
.SS Clipping on circular display
The content appears cut off at the edges. Override display shape detection:
.PP
.RS
.nf
Edit /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/config.ini:
[display]
shape = circular
.fi
.RE
.PP
Then restart the CoolerControl service.
.SS Too much padding on rectangular display
Content appears too small with large margins. Override display shape:
.PP
.RS
.nf
Edit /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/config.ini:
[display]
shape = rectangular
.fi
.RE
.SS Debug build for detailed information
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B cd /path/to/coolerdash
.B make debug
.B /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/coolerdash --verbose
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/config.ini
Main configuration file. Contains all settings for daemon connection, display
properties, layout, colors, fonts, and temperature thresholds.
.TP
.I /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/coolerdash
Installed plugin binary executable.
.TP
.I /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/manifest.toml
CoolerControl plugin manifest file.
.TP
.I /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/shutdown.png
Shutdown image displayed when the plugin stops.
.TP
.I /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/coolerdash.png
Temporary file for generated display image.
.TP
.I /tmp/coolerdash.pid
PID file for the running coolerdash process.
.TP
.I /usr/share/man/man1/coolerdash.1.gz
This manual page (when installed system-wide).
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/coolerdash/
Documentation directory containing detailed guides:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
.I config-guide.md
\- Complete configuration reference
.IP \(bu 3
.I display-modes.md
\- Display modes technical documentation
.IP \(bu 3
.I display-detection.md
\- Display shape detection details
.IP \(bu 3
.I coolercontrol-api.md
\- CoolerControl API integration guide
.IP \(bu 3
.I developer-guide.md
\- Developer documentation
.IP \(bu 3
.I devices.md
\- List of confirmed working devices
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B coolerdash
does not use environment variables. All configuration is managed through
.IR /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/config.ini .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution or graceful shutdown.
.TP
.B 1
General error (configuration error, CoolerControl connection failure, etc.).
.TP
.B 2
Invalid command-line arguments.
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 3
When
.B coolerdash
stops (during shutdown or reboot), it automatically displays the shutdown.png
image because sensor data is no longer available.
.IP \(bu 3
The CoolerControl service must be restarted after modifying
.I /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/config.ini
for changes to take effect.
.IP \(bu 3
Verbose logging (
.BR \-\-verbose )
is recommended when troubleshooting display issues or API communication problems.
.IP \(bu 3
Multiple instances of coolerdash cannot run simultaneously. The plugin is
automatically managed by CoolerControl.
.IP \(bu 3
The
.B \-\-force\-display\-circular
flag is deprecated. Use the
.B shape
configuration parameter instead for better control.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.nf
.B coolerdash --verbose
.fi
.RE
.PP
For additional examples, see the
.B EXAMPLES
section above.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR journalctl (1),
.BR curl (1),
.BR jq (1)
.PP
.B CoolerControl
.RS
.UR https://gitlab.com/coolercontrol/coolercontrol
.UE
.RE
.PP
.B CoolerDash GitHub Repository
.RS
.UR https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash
.UE
.RE
.PP
.B liquidctl (supported devices)
.RS
.UR https://github.com/liquidctl/liquidctl
.UE
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Written by DAMACHINE.
.PP
.MT christkue79@gmail.com
.ME
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024-2025 DAMACHINE.
.PP
License: MIT License
.UR https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
.UE
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH BUGS
.SS Reporting Bugs
Report bugs and feature requests at:
.UR https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/issues
.UE
.PP
When reporting bugs, please include:
.IP \(bu 3
Output of
.B /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/coolerdash \-\-verbose
.IP \(bu 3
Content of
.I /etc/coolercontrol/plugins/coolerdash/config.ini
.IP \(bu 3
Output of
.B "systemctl status coolercontrold"
.IP \(bu 3
Output of
.B "curl http://localhost:11987/devices"
.IP \(bu 3
Your device model and LCD resolution
.IP \(bu 3
Linux distribution and kernel version
.SS Known Issues
See the GitHub Issues page for current known issues and workarounds.
.SH HISTORY
.B coolerdash
was created to extend CoolerControl's LCD functionality on Linux systems,
providing features similar to those available on Windows platforms for AIO
liquid cooler displays.
.PP
The project started with basic temperature display and has evolved to include
multiple display modes, automatic shape detection, extensive customization
options, and support for various cooler brands.
