README.md, before:


<p align="left">
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C99"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/C-99-blue.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://kernel.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-Linux-green.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://app.codacy.com/gh/damachine/coolerdash/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade"><img src="https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/056718c967524322acd4f4f76393fd7f"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/github-code-scanning/codeql"><img src="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/github-code-scanning/codeql/badge.svg"></a>
</p>

---

# CoolerDash 🐧

#### This tool allows you to monitoring (display) real-time telemetry data from sensors on an AIO liquid cooler with an integrated LCD display.   
   
> Use it successfully myself – maybe it will help you too! ❤️

---
## Features
- **Extends the LCD functionality of [CoolerControl](https://gitlab.com/coolercontrol/coolercontrol) with additional features.**
- **Support for additional sensor values, and a sophisticated, customizable user interface.**
- **Two display modes:**
  - **Dual Mode (default):** Shows CPU and GPU temperatures simultaneously
  - **Circle Mode (beta):** Alternates between CPU and GPU every 5 sec. - optimized for round high-resolution displays (>240x240px)

> ##### Special thanks to [@codifryed](https://github.com/codifryed), the founder of CoolerControl

<a href="https://discord.com/channels/908873022105079848/1395236612677570560"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Join%20CoolerDash%20Discussion-blue?logo=discord"></a>

<div align="center">
  <img src="images/round.png" alt="CoolerDash LCD Demo round" width="320" height="320"/> 
  <img src="images/quad.png" alt="CoolerDash LCD Demo quad" width="320" height="320"/>
</div>

---

## System Requirements

- **OS**: Linux
- **CoolerControl**: Version >=3.1.0 REQUIRED - must be installed and running [Installation Guide](https://gitlab.com/coolercontrol/coolercontrol/-/blob/main/README.md)
- **CPU**: x86-64-v3 compatible (Intel Haswell+ / AMD Excavator+)
- **LCD**: AIO liquid cooler LCD displays **(NZXT, etc.)**

> See the [Supported Devices](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/devices.md) for confirmed working hardware. In principle, all devices supported by CoolerControl/[liquidctl](https://github.com/liquidctl/liquidctl?tab=readme-ov-file#supported-devices) should work with CoolerDash. You can [submit a device confirmation](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/issues/new?template=device-confirmation.yml) to help expand the list.

---

## Installation

#### Arch-based distributions

<a href="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/aur.yml"><img src="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/aur.yml/badge.svg"></a>  
[![AUR](https://img.shields.io/aur/version/coolerdash-git?color=blue&label=AUR)](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/coolerdash-git)

- Using an AUR helper:

```bash
# STEP 1: Install
yay -S coolerdash-git
#OR any other AUR helper
```

#### All distributions

<a href="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/install.yml"><img src="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/install.yml/badge.svg"></a>

- Manual installation:

```bash
# STEP 1: Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash.git
cd coolerdash

# STEP 2: Build and install (auto-detects Linux distribution and installs dependencies)
make install
```

> For manual installations, make sure all required dependencies are installed correctly. Manual installations need to be updated manually.

---

## Configuration

**Start CoolerControl Service (if not already enabled):**
```bash
systemctl enable --now coolercontrold.service
```

**CoolerDash Configuration (optional):**  
Edit `/etc/coolerdash/config.ini` and adjust settings as needed.
 Then restart: `systemctl restart coolercontrold.service`

**Display Modes:**
- **Dual (default):** CPU + GPU simultaneously (all displays)
- **Circle:** Alternates CPU/GPU every 5s (round displays >240x240px)

Enable Circle Mode: Edit config.ini → `[display]` section → `mode=circle`  

> [!NOTE]
> See **[Configuration Guide](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/config-guide.md)** for all options.

---

## Advanced Usage

<details>
  <summary>Expand</summary>
   
#### Service Management

```bash
# Service control
systemctl enable --now coolerdash.service  # Enable and Start!
systemctl start coolerdash.service         # Start
systemctl stop coolerdash.service          # Stop
systemctl restart coolerdash.service       # Restart
systemctl status coolerdash.service        # Status + recent logs

# Journal log
journalctl -u coolerdash.service

# Live logs
journalctl -xeu coolerdash.service -f
```

#### Build Commands

```bash
make            # Standard C99 build
make clean      # Clean up
make install    # System installation with dependency auto-detection
make uninstall  # Remove installation (service, binary, files)
make debug      # Debug build with AddressSanitizer
make help       # Show all options
```

#### Manual Usage 

```bash
# Run manually (with minimal status logging)
coolerdash

# Run with detailed verbose logging
coolerdash --verbose
# or short form:
coolerdash -v

# Force specific display mode
coolerdash --dual      # Force dual mode (CPU+GPU simultaneously)
coolerdash --circle    # Force circle mode (alternating CPU/GPU)
```

#### Debugging Steps

```bash
# 1. Check CoolerControl status
systemctl status coolercontrold
curl http://localhost:11987/devices

# 2. Test CoolerDash manually (with clean output)
coolerdash

# 3. Test CoolerDash with detailed verbose logging
coolerdash --verbose
# or short form:
coolerdash -v

# 4. Debug build for detailed information (if needed)
make debug && coolerdash --verbose

# 5. Check service logs (STATUS messages always visible)
journalctl -xeu coolerdash.service -f

# 6. View recent logs with context
journalctl -u coolerdash.service -n 50
```

> The systemd service must be stopped before running manually to avoid conflicts:

```bash
systemctl stop coolerdash.service
```
</details>

---
   
## Troubleshooting

<details>
  <summary>Expand</summary>

#### Installation Issues
If you see errors like "conflicting files" or "manual installation detected" during Arch/AUR `makepkg -si`, CoolerDash was previously installed manually via `make install`.

**Solution:**
```bash
sudo systemctl stop coolerdash.service
sudo make uninstall
```

Remove any leftover files:
```bash
sudo rm -rf /opt/coolerdash/ \
            /usr/bin/coolerdash \
            /etc/systemd/system/coolerdash.service
```

#### Check CoolerControl devices

```bash
liquidctl --version
# Expected: liquidctl v1.15.0 (or newer)
```

  ```bash
  curl http://localhost:11987/devices | jq
  ```

  ```json
  {
        "name": "NZXT Kraken 2023",
        "type": "Liquidctl",
        "type_index": 1,
        "uid": "8d4becb03bca2a8e8d4213ac376a1094f39d2786f688549ad3b6a591c3affdf9",
        "lc_info": {
          "driver_type": "KrakenZ3",
          "firmware_version": "2.0.0",
          "unknown_asetek": false
        }
  }
  ```
</details>

---
## Documentation

<details>
  <summary>Expand</summary>
   
- **[Configuration Guide](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/config-guide.md)** - All configuration options
- **[Supported Devices](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/devices.md)** - Confirmed working hardware
- **[Display Modes Guide](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/display-modes.md)** - Dual and Circle mode reference
- **[Developer Guide](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/developer-guide.md)** - Architecture and API integration
- **[Display Detection](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/display-detection.md)** - Display shape detection
- **[CoolerControl API Guide](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/coolercontrol-api.md)** - API module documentation
</details>

---

## Community & Support

**Questions or ideas?** Join our [Discussions](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/discussions) or open an [Issue](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/issues).

<a href="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/discussions"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/discussions/damachine/coolerdash?style=flat-square&logo=github&label=Discussions"></a> <a href="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/issues"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/damachine/coolerdash?style=flat-square&logo=github&label=Issues"></a>

**Support the project:**  
• ⭐ Star this repo   
• 🐛 Report bugs   
• 🔄 Share with others   
• 📝 Contribute   
• [![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Sponsor-GitHub-blue?logo=github-sponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/damachine)   
   
[![Stargazers over time](https://starchart.cc/damachine/coolerdash.svg?variant=adaptive)](https://starchart.cc/damachine/coolerdash)

Commit message:

docs: update for version 2.0.4 changes

README.md, after:


<p align="left">
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C99"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/C-99-blue.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://kernel.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-Linux-green.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://app.codacy.com/gh/damachine/coolerdash/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade"><img src="https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/056718c967524322acd4f4f76393fd7f"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/github-code-scanning/codeql"><img src="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/github-code-scanning/codeql/badge.svg"></a>
</p>

---

# CoolerDash 🐧

#### This tool allows you to monitoring (display) real-time telemetry data from sensors on an AIO liquid cooler with an integrated LCD display.   
   
> Use it successfully myself – maybe it will help you too! ❤️

---
## Features
- **Extends the LCD functionality of [CoolerControl](https://gitlab.com/coolercontrol/coolercontrol) with additional features.**
- **Support for additional sensor values, and a sophisticated, customizable user interface.**
- **Two display modes:**
  - **Dual Mode (default):** Shows CPU and GPU temperatures simultaneously
  - **Circle Mode (beta):** Alternates between CPU and GPU every 5 sec. - optimized for round high-resolution displays (>240x240px)

> ##### Special thanks to [@codifryed](https://github.com/codifryed), the founder of CoolerControl

<a href="https://discord.com/channels/908873022105079848/1395236612677570560"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Join%20CoolerDash%20Discussion-blue?logo=discord"></a>

<div align="center">
  <img src="images/round.png" alt="CoolerDash LCD Demo round" width="320" height="320"/> 
  <img src="images/quad.png" alt="CoolerDash LCD Demo quad" width="320" height="320"/>
</div>

---

## System Requirements

> [!NOTE]
> The new version 2.0.4 no longer requires the systemd service `coolerdash.service`. Only `coolercontrold.service` is now required.
> The service is disabled by default after the upgrade. Please do not enable it manually. I'm leaving the service in place for regression reasons. It will be removed in future versions.
> If your distribution package is not updated with CoolerControl >=3.1.0, you will need `coolerdash.service` until your distribution package is updated.

- **OS**: Linux
- **CoolerControl**: Version >=3.1.0 REQUIRED - must be installed and running [Installation Guide](https://gitlab.com/coolercontrol/coolercontrol/-/blob/main/README.md)
- **CPU**: x86-64-v3 compatible (Intel Haswell+ / AMD Excavator+)
- **LCD**: AIO liquid cooler LCD displays **(NZXT, etc.)**

> See the [Supported Devices](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/devices.md) for confirmed working hardware. In principle, all devices supported by CoolerControl/[liquidctl](https://github.com/liquidctl/liquidctl?tab=readme-ov-file#supported-devices) should work with CoolerDash. You can [submit a device confirmation](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/issues/new?template=device-confirmation.yml) to help expand the list.

---

## Installation

#### Arch-based distributions

<a href="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/aur.yml"><img src="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/aur.yml/badge.svg"></a>  
[![AUR](https://img.shields.io/aur/version/coolerdash-git?color=blue&label=AUR)](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/coolerdash-git)

- Using an AUR helper:

```bash
# STEP 1: Install
yay -S coolerdash-git
#OR any other AUR helper
```

#### All distributions

<a href="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/install.yml"><img src="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/actions/workflows/install.yml/badge.svg"></a>

- Manual installation:

```bash
# STEP 1: Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash.git
cd coolerdash

# STEP 2: Build and install (auto-detects Linux distribution and installs dependencies)
make install
```

> For manual installations, make sure all required dependencies are installed correctly. Manual installations need to be updated manually.

---

## Configuration

**Start CoolerControl Service (if not already enabled):**
```bash
systemctl enable --now coolercontrold.service
```

**CoolerDash Configuration (optional):**  
Edit `/etc/coolerdash/config.ini` and adjust settings as needed.
 Then restart: `systemctl restart coolercontrold.service`

**Display Modes:**
- **Dual (default):** CPU + GPU simultaneously (all displays)
- **Circle:** Alternates CPU/GPU every 5s (round displays >240x240px)

Enable Circle Mode: Edit config.ini → `[display]` section → `mode=circle`  

> [!NOTE]
> See **[Configuration Guide](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/config-guide.md)** for all options.

---

## Advanced Usage

<details>
  <summary>Expand</summary>
   
#### Service Management

```bash
# Service control
systemctl enable --now coolerdash.service  # Enable and Start!
systemctl start coolerdash.service         # Start
systemctl stop coolerdash.service          # Stop
systemctl restart coolerdash.service       # Restart
systemctl status coolerdash.service        # Status + recent logs

# Journal log
journalctl -u coolerdash.service

# Live logs
journalctl -xeu coolerdash.service -f
```

#### Build Commands

```bash
make            # Standard C99 build
make clean      # Clean up
make install    # System installation with dependency auto-detection
make uninstall  # Remove installation (service, binary, files)
make debug      # Debug build with AddressSanitizer
make help       # Show all options
```

#### Manual Usage 

```bash
# Run manually (with minimal status logging)
coolerdash

# Run with detailed verbose logging
coolerdash --verbose
# or short form:
coolerdash -v

# Force specific display mode
coolerdash --dual      # Force dual mode (CPU+GPU simultaneously)
coolerdash --circle    # Force circle mode (alternating CPU/GPU)
```

#### Debugging Steps

```bash
# 1. Check CoolerControl status
systemctl status coolercontrold
curl http://localhost:11987/devices

# 2. Test CoolerDash manually (with clean output)
coolerdash

# 3. Test CoolerDash with detailed verbose logging
coolerdash --verbose
# or short form:
coolerdash -v

# 4. Debug build for detailed information (if needed)
make debug && coolerdash --verbose

# 5. Check service logs (STATUS messages always visible)
journalctl -xeu coolerdash.service -f

# 6. View recent logs with context
journalctl -u coolerdash.service -n 50
```

> The systemd service must be stopped before running manually to avoid conflicts:

```bash
systemctl stop coolerdash.service
```
</details>

---
   
## Troubleshooting

<details>
  <summary>Expand</summary>

#### Installation Issues
If you see errors like "conflicting files" or "manual installation detected" during Arch/AUR `makepkg -si`, CoolerDash was previously installed manually via `make install`.

**Solution:**
```bash
sudo systemctl stop coolerdash.service
sudo make uninstall
```

Remove any leftover files:
```bash
sudo rm -rf /opt/coolerdash/ \
            /usr/bin/coolerdash \
            /etc/systemd/system/coolerdash.service
```

#### Check CoolerControl devices

```bash
liquidctl --version
# Expected: liquidctl v1.15.0 (or newer)
```

  ```bash
  curl http://localhost:11987/devices | jq
  ```

  ```json
  {
        "name": "NZXT Kraken 2023",
        "type": "Liquidctl",
        "type_index": 1,
        "uid": "8d4becb03bca2a8e8d4213ac376a1094f39d2786f688549ad3b6a591c3affdf9",
        "lc_info": {
          "driver_type": "KrakenZ3",
          "firmware_version": "2.0.0",
          "unknown_asetek": false
        }
  }
  ```
</details>

---
## Documentation

<details>
  <summary>Expand</summary>
   
- **[Configuration Guide](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/config-guide.md)** - All configuration options
- **[Supported Devices](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/devices.md)** - Confirmed working hardware
- **[Display Modes Guide](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/display-modes.md)** - Dual and Circle mode reference
- **[Developer Guide](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/developer-guide.md)** - Architecture and API integration
- **[Display Detection](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/display-detection.md)** - Display shape detection
- **[CoolerControl API Guide](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/blob/main/docs/coolercontrol-api.md)** - API module documentation
</details>

---

## Community & Support

**Questions or ideas?** Join our [Discussions](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/discussions) or open an [Issue](https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/issues).

<a href="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/discussions"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/discussions/damachine/coolerdash?style=flat-square&logo=github&label=Discussions"></a> <a href="https://github.com/damachine/coolerdash/issues"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/damachine/coolerdash?style=flat-square&logo=github&label=Issues"></a>

**Support the project:**  
• ⭐ Star this repo   
• 🐛 Report bugs   
• 🔄 Share with others   
• 📝 Contribute   
• [![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Sponsor-GitHub-blue?logo=github-sponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/damachine)   
   
[![Stargazers over time](https://starchart.cc/damachine/coolerdash.svg?variant=adaptive)](https://starchart.cc/damachine/coolerdash)
